# About the Graphs:

Graph 1:
This graph shows the differences in percentage rates by a state's political affiliation. States are categorized by blue, red or non-consistent based on how that have voted in presidential elections since 2020 (https://www.270towin.com/same-since-electoral-maps/). If they have voted the same political party for the full period of time they will be categorized either red or blue, if they have switched parties in that period they will be categorized as a non consistent. 

Using this graph we see that medicare insurance does vary by political affiliation, but there is very little clear pattern. Every 4 years there is a change in presidential election (i.e. 2016, 2020, 2024 etc. presidential elections) but the spikes don't seem to correlate. In addition we don't see a large uptick in medicare insurance holders in 2020 where we entered Covid and more money was put into public welfare. On a general note we see that democratic medicare rates seem to fluctuate the most, then republican states, with non-consistent being less variable.    

Graph 2: 
This graph shows the insurance enrollment rates in Washington, answering the question "How does health insurance enrollment vary over time and insurance type". In this graph we see that the number of people insured through VA care and medicare care make up a very small percent of the population. In addition we see that the major insurance type is public, with public below it (employer based is part of private insurance). Finally, even though Medicaid is a subset of public heath care we see that the lines are almost completely overlapping, signifying that the majority of public healthcare holders are insured though medicare.

On a general note once the shiny part is added, we can toggle though each state on a different graph. This is a good way to prevent the graph from getting to cluttered. In addition, we used a log scale instead of a linear one, this makes the lines more distinct. This graphic is intended to allow the user/viewer to compare different states in terms of insurance enrollment by insurance type. Instead of narrowing down to a single research question this is a good clean way to explore the data set.