# About the Graphs:

Graph 1:
This graph shows the differences in percentage rates by a state's political affiliation. States are categorized by blue, red or non-consistent based on how that have voted in presidential elections since 2020 (https://www.270towin.com/same-since-electoral-maps/). If they have voted the same political party for the full period of time they will be categorized either red or blue, if they have switched parties in that period they will be categorized as a non consistent. 

Using this graph we see that medicare insurance does vary by political affiliation, but there is very little clear pattern. Every 4 years there is a change in presidential election (i.e. 2016, 2020, 2024 etc. presidential elections) but the spikes don't seem to correlate. In addition we don't see a large uptick in medicare insurance holders in 2020 where we entered Covid and more money was put into public welfare. On a general note we see that democratic medicare rates seem to fluctuate the most, then republican states, with non-consistent being less variable.    

Graph 2: 
This graph shows the insurance enrollment rates in Washington, answering the question "How does health insurance enrollment vary over time and insurance type". In this graph we see that the number of people insured through VA care and medicare care make up a very small percent of the population. In addition we see that the major insurance type is public, with public below it (employer based is part of private insurance). Finally, even though Medicaid is a subset of public heath care we see that the lines are almost completely overlapping, signifying that the majority of public healthcare holders are insured though medicare.

On a general note once the shiny part is added, we can toggle though each state on a different graph. This is a good way to prevent the graph from getting to cluttered. In addition, we used a log scale instead of a linear one, this makes the lines more distinct. This graphic is intended to allow the user/viewer to compare different states in terms of insurance enrollment by insurance type. Instead of narrowing down to a single research question this is a good clean way to explore the data set.

Graph 3:
This choropleth map shows the percentage of the population in each state that is enrolled in a specific type of insurance in a specific year. The darker the color of the state is, the higher the percentage of the population in that state is enrolled in a specific type of insurance. From the choropleth, we see the state with the highest percentage of the population that is enrolled in public insurance (in 2022) is New Mexico. Meanwhile, the state with the highest percentage of the population that is enrolled in private insurance (in 2022) is Utah. Lastly, the state with the highest percentage of the population that is uninsured (in 2022) is Texas. The shiny dashboard will allow us to select different years, as well as look at more specific insurance types such as direct purchase, Medicare, Medicaid, and more.

Graph 4: 
This graph shows the differences in percentage rates by a state's minimum wage type. Each percent per year is the average percentage for all states with a certain minimum wage type. States are categorized by at or below, above or indexed minimum wage based on a table from the National Conference of State Legislatures (https://www.ncsl.org/labor-and-employment/state-minimum-wages). If a state is "at or below the minimum wage" then the state legislature matches the federal minimum wage, is below federal minimum wage or doesn't specify a minimum wage. If a state is categorized as "above minimum wage" then the state has increased their minimum wage one or more times since 2009, when the federal minimum wage of 7.25 was enacted. If the state has "indexed minimum wage" then the state adjusts or increases the minimum wage on some set schedule that may or may not correlate with some kind of index/measurement (CPI, cost of living, employment cost index etc. )

Using this graph we see that medicare insurance enrollment does vary by minimum wage type. We would expect that "indexed minimum wage" would have the lowest medicare percentage, followed by "above minimum wage", and "at or below minimum wage" having the smallest percent. This is because medicare enrollment is somewhat related to income level (medicare is government funded insurance for low income individuals), therefore one would expect that states with a lower minimum wage would have a higher medicare enrollment percentage. This expectation is somewhat disproved, since "at or below minimum wage" has a smaller percentage than "above minimum wage" for most years. However, through almost all of the years, indexed minimum wage has smaller enrollment percentages. Once we can toggle through insurance types we can see how different insurance types are affected by income (using minimum wage as an indicator/baseline for the income of individuals in a certain state). 
